Hi guys.
Amazon Redshift is a data warehouse that is used with structured query language,
SQL, and business intelligence tools to perform analytics on data.
If you remember this slide from earlier in this section we have operational and transactional databases
and analytical databases redshift falls squarely in the analytical space.
So it's an online analytics processing or OLAP type of database with data warehouses you typically
take your data from elsewhere and load it into the data warehouse and then you can perform your analytics
on that data.
So in the case of redshift we can see we have Amazon S3 you can also ingest from dynamoDB and
you ingest that data into redshift and redshift has the concept of LIDAR nodes which coordinate the
query execution and then the actual compute nodes.
And there are two different types of compute nodes.
There are dense compute and dense storage nodes so depends on your use case.
Which ones you use.
But the compute nodes actually perform the execution of the queries and they do so in parallel.
You can take snapshots of your redshift database and you can also have those snapshots replicated across
to another region.
And that can happen automatically and we'll see that in the console
redshift is not multi easy.
So you can see here it's all fitting within one availability zone.
But snapshots just like with EBS are actually stored on S3 which means they're within the region
not within the availability zone.
And that means if you want to back up your database and then restore it into another AZ you can do
S3 snapshots.
In terms of the exam you often see redshift coming out where there's a requirement for analyzing data
in an analytics way using SQL clients or business intelligence tools.
So you'll often see business intelligence tools mentioned and when you hear that you can start thinking
about redshift.
Another thing have redshift is you can use something called redshift spectrum and with redshift spectrum
you don't need to load the data in to redshift from S3 you can actually query data directly on S3.
So that's something that's possibly going to come up if you see spectrum that could relate to performing
analytics on data.
That's sitting in S3.
Another thing to mention about redshift is that it uses columnar data storage.
So that means data is stored sequentially in columns instead of rows using column based storage methods
is ideal for warehousing and analytics it's much much faster.
It requires fewer IOs and therefore is extremely fast.
Additionally because of the way that the architecture is designed you have what's called massively parallel
processing.
So you can execute your processes on lots of nodes and you can have up to 128 of these nodes running
in parallel executing against your data.
So that's enough theory let's head over to the console and we'll just create a redshift cluster.
So I'm in the AWS management console I can just search for redshift and it comes up there and you've
now got a couple of options you can do a quick launch cluster you could open a query Ed which is if
you have an existing database and it even shows you a visual method of working out the cluster configuration
you want so you can go in here and say well you know this scale so big that you've got petabytes here
so you could choose.
You know I've had 500 petabytes that data and it's going to tell us what type of compute node we need
to use and what the prices.
And obviously that would be extremely costly.
It would take a lot of hours to actually process that data.
But if you come back down into the realms of the 500 terabytes then it drops right down.
So now we go to a different type of instance which is going to run at two hundred and twenty dollars
an hour to go down to gigabytes and just put it right the way down then you know the price just drops
down to a very small amount now 66 cents an hour.
So let's go in and obviously this might cost a few dollars to run but what I'm going to do is I'm going
to choose the smallest instance available and in fact it tells you up here so as she tells you what
the per hour rate is so you can see DC to large as the smallest one.
I'm going to choose that and that's only 33 cents an hour.
So that's pretty good.
I'll go with two nodes.
I'll leave the default name.
I need to put a password in here
and we need to choose an IAM role.
Now what I should have done is set this up ahead of time.
But let's go and do that now.
So let's go into I am and I also have an article here and you can find this actually just by clicking
back in redshift here you just click on learn more and it will open this article and this will tell
you how to create this role.
And all I'm going to do here is I'm just going to copy this name because I'm going to use the same name
for the role that AWB has suggest but we just need to go in and choose the redshift service choose the
use cases redshift customizable and then we're going to load permissions for S3 read only access so
that we can ingest data if you wanted to use redshift spectrum which I mentioned before which is gives
you the capability to analyze data directly in as free rather than ingesting it first you would then
also need to give it some additional permissions.
So you need to use glue AWB as glue or Amazon Athena a couple of other services for performing analytics.
So let's just go and create this role.
I mean I am I'm going to choose roles create role I'm going to select redshift and then the use cases
redshift customizable click next.
And what I want to do is just search for Amazon s3.
I'm going to choose the read only access option and then go through to paste in the name suggested by AWS
and we'll just create that role.
Let's go back to redshift.
I'm just gonna cancel out.
So let's click quick launch cluster.
I'm gonna re-enter that password
and then we're going to choose our role.
And that's what we need to do.
We can now click on launch cluster
and it tells us here a bit about setting up the query editor.
Now we don't actually have any data so we're not going to set this up because we don't have anything
to actually query.
But if you wanted to set up the query editor you also need to setup some IAM policies to allow that
access let's just choose to view clusters and we can see that the cluster status is creating.
It's been a few minutes now and I just refreshed and the cluster is now available and healthy couple
of things we can do at this level you can select the cluster you can see the end point and you can see
some information about the cluster including the port and you can launch a new cluster obviously you
can go to cluster and query modify resize delete reboot you can configure audit logging say encryption
case we didn't enable encryption but if you had done you'd be able to work with the encryption keys
and you can take a snapshot and configure your retention period and then also you can configure across
region snapshots.
So when you do this you can then go and select your region that you want to copy your snapshots to and
redshift automatically copies the automated and manual snapshots to the destination region course you
then incur the data transfer costs and the storage costs in the destination region you can then choose
your retention period up to 35 days and that's the automated snapshots and then for the manual snapshots
you can specify the total number of days that you want those to be kept full.
So those are a few things you can do there and you can also then go and click on the Cluster again you
at the end point here get some information about the cluster you've also got the JDBC and ODBC connectivity
information here and underneath at the very bottom hey you can see the leader node and to compute nights.
Remember there's always one leader and then you've got multiple compute nodes and the compute nodes
are executing the data for analytics and you can see the public and private eyepiece for those under
status.
You can see some recent events and then you've got cluster performance and database performance so you
can see a lot of information about what's going on.
If you're running long jobs you're going to be watching in here to see what's going on how your clusters
performing and whether you need to add additional nodes you can look at the queries that have been run
the loads and the restores.
Just go back up to this level we can resize the cluster.
So in here you have two options you've got the elastic resize and you've got the classic resize and
just cancel out of there and then on the left you have the query editor and if you select this it asks
you for some credentials
and you can then go look at Save queries snapshots that you've taken this workload management and you
can reserve nodes as well.
So like many other services you could go in here and select the type of node you want to reserve.
And then as always it's one year or three years nothing in between.
It's just one or three.
Those are the options and then you can choose whether you want to pay all upfront no upfront or partial
upfront and that affects your discounts.
Amazon Redshift advisor can give you some tips on what you can do to improve your cluster performance
and decrease costs.
We then have the events here which is obviously this is across clusters whereas with you one within
the cluster you just see the events for that specific cluster and then you can download drive us to
JDBC and DBC as well so that's just a really quick overview of redshift.
I think we need to go in any more detail or actually execute queries or anything like that and load
data in because that's beyond the scope of the architecture exam.
You really just need to understand this architecture so you need to know that it's that redshift is
for analytics type workloads so overlap that is a data warehouse that it's going to execute long complex
queries.
That's the purpose of a data warehouse.
The architecture includes a leader node and then compute nodes up to 128 of these and they run in parallel.
You need to remember it's within an availability zone it's not multi AZ but you can take snapshots
and then you could potentially have multiple redshift clusters running in parallel and different availability
zones or you can just restore a redshift cluster that's failed or that needs to be moved for some reason
into a never availability zone and then you also have cross region snapshots so you can safeguard your
snapshots and move them out of the region as well for even extra redundancy.
And the key thing to remember is whenever you see anything about business intelligence tools or analytics
using MySQL then redshift is the way to go so let's just go back and we're just going to clean
this up.
So all I need to do is go in and delete cluster and I'm going to select no for snapshot and acknowledge
and delete and that's it.